Adding docs for Mosaic integration (#5469)
voxel51/fiftyone: docs/source/integrations/mosaic.rst

with its governance and productivity tools, and we've made it easy to
use Mosaic's vector search capabilities on your computer vision data
directly from FiftyOne!

Follow these :ref:`simple instructions <mosaic-setup>` to get started
using Mosaic + FiftyOne.

FiftyOne provides an API to create Mosaic indexes, upload vectors, and
run similarity queries, both :ref:`programmatically <mosaic-query>` in
Python and via point-and-click in the App.

.. note::

    Did you know? You can
    :ref:`search by natural language <brain-similarity-text>` using
    Mosaic similarity indexes!

.. image:: /images/brain/brain-image-similarity.gif
   :alt: image-similarity
   :align: center

.. _mosaic-basic-recipe:

Basic recipe
____________

The basic workflow to use Mosaic to create a similarity index on your
FiftyOne datasets and query your data is as follows:

1)  Connect to you databricks workspace and `create a vector search endpoint <https://docs.databricks.com/en/generative-ai/create-query-vector-search.html#create-a-vector-search-endpoint>`_.

2)  Load a :ref:`dataset <loading-datasets>` into FiftyOne

3)  Compute embedding vectors for samples or patches in your dataset, or select

>     a model to use to generate embeddings

Reviewer: You can add a reference for selecting models for generating embeddings

4)  Use the :meth:`compute_similarity() <fiftyone.brain.compute_similarity>`
    method to generate a Mosaic similarity index for the samples or
    object patches in a dataset by setting the parameter
    `backend="mosaic"` and specifying a `brain_key` of your choice

5)  Use this Mosaic similarity index to query your data with
    :meth:`sort_by_similarity() <fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.sort_by_similarity>`

6) If desired, delete the index

|br|
The example below demonstrates this workflow.

.. note::

    You must have access to a databricks account with 
    `vector search enabled <https://docs.databricks.com/en/generative-ai/vector-search.html#requirements>`_
    and install the
    `Databricks Vector Search Python package <https://api-docs.databricks.com/python/vector-search/databricks.vector_search.html>`_
    to run this example:

    .. code-block:: shell

        pip install databricks-vectorsearch

>     Note that, you need to provide credentials as described in :ref:`this section <mosaic-setup>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Note that you need to provide credentials as described in :ref:`this section <mosaic-setup>`
```

    to avoid entering them manually each time you interact with your
    Mosaic index.

> First let's load a dataset into FiftyOne and compute embeddings for the samples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, let's load a dataset into FiftyOne and compute embeddings for the samples:
```

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    import fiftyone as fo
    import fiftyone.brain as fob
    import fiftyone.zoo as foz

    # Step 1: Load your data into FiftyOne
    dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("quickstart")

    # Steps 2 and 3: Compute embeddings and create a similarity index
    mosaic_index = fob.compute_similarity(
        dataset,
        brain_key="mosaic_index",
        backend="mosaic",
    )

> Once the similarity index has been generated, we can query our data in FiftyOne

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the similarity index has been generated, you can query your data in FiftyOne
```
just for consistency in this section

by specifying the `brain_key`:

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    # Step 4: Query your data
    query = dataset.first().id  # query by sample ID
    view = dataset.sort_by_similarity(
        query,
        brain_key="mosaic_index",
        k=10,  # limit to 10 most similar samples
    )

    # Step 5 (optional): Cleanup

    # Delete the Mosaic index
    mosaic_index.cleanup()

    # Delete run record from FiftyOne
    dataset.delete_brain_run("mosaic_index")

.. note::

    Skip to :ref:`this section <mosaic-examples>` for a variety of
    common Mosaic query patterns.

.. _mosaic-setup:

Setup
_____

> To get started with Mosaic AI Vector Search, you need to have access to a Datbaricks workspace which satisfies the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get started with Mosaic AI Vector Search, you need to have access to a Databricks workspace which satisfies the 
```

`requirements for vector search <https://docs.databricks.com/en/generative-ai/vector-search.html#requirements>`_
and `create a vector search endpoint <https://docs.databricks.com/en/generative-ai/create-query-vector-search.html#create-a-vector-search-endpoint>`_. 
You also need to have a catalog and schema in Databricks where you want to create the vector search index.

Installing the Mosaic AI Vector Search client

> -----------------------------------

Reviewer: add more `-`

Author: The "-" are immaterial and don't affect the actual built docs.

In order to use the Mosaic backend, you must also install the
`Databricks Vector Search Python package <https://api-docs.databricks.com/python/vector-search/databricks.vector_search.html>`_

.. code-block:: shell

    pip install databricks-vectorsearch

Using the Mosaic backend

> -------------------------------

Reviewer: delete some `-`

Author: The `-` are immaterial and don't affect the actual built docs.

By default, calling
:meth:`compute_similarity() <fiftyone.brain.compute_similarity>` or
:meth:`sort_by_similarity() <fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.sort_by_similarity>`

> will use an sklearn backend.

Reviewer: Since you can change the default using env variable / config, this may not be true.

Author: Yes I think default assumes that it is without any changes/ env vars.

To use the Mosaic backend, simply set the optional `backend` parameter of
:meth:`compute_similarity() <fiftyone.brain.compute_similarity>` to
`"mosaic"`:

.. code:: python
    :linenos:

    import fiftyone.brain as fob

    fob.compute_similarity(..., backend="mosaic", ...)

> Alternatively, you can permanently configure FiftyOne to use the Mosaic

Reviewer: nit: using `export FIFTYONE_BRAIN_DEFAULT_SIMILARITY_BACKEND=mosaic` won't be permanent but the config change would be

Author: Right but if you add this to something like your Docker image then it would be permanent. I think that part can be assumed to be implied.

You can manually provide credentials as keyword arguments each time you call
methods like :meth:`compute_similarity() <fiftyone.brain.compute_similarity>`
that require connections to Databricks:

.. code:: python
    :linenos:

    import fiftyone.brain as fob

    mosaic_index = fob.compute_similarity(
        ...
        backend="mosaic",
        brain_key="mosaic_index",
        workspace_url = "https://<unique-url>.cloud.databricks.com/",
        personal_access_token = "XXXXXXXX",
        catalog_name = "XXXXXXXX", 
        schema_name = "XXXXXXXX",
        endpoint_name = "XXXXXXXX"
    )

Note that, when using this strategy, you must manually provide the credentials
when loading an index later via
:meth:`load_brain_results() <fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.load_brain_results>`:

.. code:: python
    :linenos:

    mosaic_index = dataset.load_brain_results(
        "mosaic_index",
        workspace_url = "https://<unique-url>.cloud.databricks.com/",
        personal_access_token = "XXXXXXXX",
        catalog_name = "XXXXXXXX", 
        schema_name = "XXXXXXXX",
        endpoint_name = "XXXXXXXX"
    )

.. _mosaic-config-parameters:

Mosaic config parameters

> -------------------------------

Reviewer: delete some `-`

Author: The `-` are immaterial and don't affect the actual built docs.

> The Mosaic backend supports a the following parameter that can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Mosaic backend supports the following parameter
```

> used to customize your similarity queries. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to customize your similarity queries. 
```

-   **index_name** (*None*): the name of the Mosaic vector search index
    to use or create. If not specified, a new unique name is generated automatically

You can specify this parameter via any of the strategies described in the
previous section. Here's an example of a :ref:`brain config <brain-config>`
that includes all of the available parameters:

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "similarity_backends": {
            "mosaic": {
                "index_name": "your-index"
            }
        }
    }

> However, typically these parameters are directly passed to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, typically this parameter is directly passed to
```

to delete the record of a similarity index computation from your FiftyOne
dataset:

.. code:: python
    :linenos:

    dataset.delete_brain_run(brain_key)

.. note::

    Calling
    :meth:`delete_brain_run() <fiftyone.core.collections.SampleCollection.delete_brain_run>`
    only deletes the **record** of the brain run from your FiftyOne dataset; it
    will not delete any associated Mosaic index, which you can do as
    follows:

    .. code:: python

        # Delete the Mosaic index
        mosaic_index = dataset.load_brain_results(brain_key)
        mosaic_index.cleanup()

.. _mosaic-examples:

Examples
________

This section demonstrates how to perform some common vector search workflows on
a FiftyOne dataset using the Mosaic backend.

.. note::

    All of the examples below assume you have configured your Databricks account and 
    credentials as described in :ref:`this section <mosaic-setup>`.

.. _mosaic-new-similarity-index:

Create a similarity index
-------------------------

In order to create a new Mosaic similarity index, you need to specify
either the `embeddings` or `model` argument to

> :meth:`compute_similarity() <fiftyone.brain.compute_similarity>`. Here's a few

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:meth:`compute_similarity() <fiftyone.brain.compute_similarity>`. Here are a few
```

possibilities:

.. code:: python
    :linenos:

    import fiftyone as fo
    import fiftyone.brain as fob
    import fiftyone.zoo as foz

    dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("quickstart")
    model_name = "clip-vit-base32-torch"
    model = foz.load_zoo_model(model_name)
    brain_key = "mosaic_index"

    # Option 1: Compute embeddings on the fly from model name
    fob.compute_similarity(
        dataset,
        model=model_name,
        backend="mosaic",
        brain_key=brain_key,
    )

    # Option 2: Compute embeddings on the fly from model instance
    fob.compute_similarity(
        dataset,
        model=model,
        backend="mosaic",
        brain_key=brain_key,
    )

>     # Option 3: Pass precomputed embeddings as a numpy array

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Option 3: Pass pre-computed embeddings as a numpy array
```

    embeddings = dataset.compute_embeddings(model)
    fob.compute_similarity(
        dataset,
        embeddings=embeddings,
        backend="mosaic",
        brain_key=brain_key,
    )

>     # Option 4: Pass precomputed embeddings by field name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Option 4: Pass pre-computed embeddings by field name
```

        brain_key="mosaic_patches",
    )

.. _mosaic-connect-to-existing-index:

Connect to an existing index
----------------------------

If you have already created a Mosaic index storing the embedding vectors
for the samples or patches in your dataset, you can connect to it by passing
the `index_name` to
:meth:`compute_similarity() <fiftyone.brain.compute_similarity>`:

.. code:: python
    :linenos:

    import fiftyone as fo
    import fiftyone.brain as fob
    import fiftyone.zoo as foz

    dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("quickstart")

    fob.compute_similarity(
        dataset,
        model="clip-vit-base32-torch",      # zoo model used (if applicable)
        embeddings=False,                   # don't compute embeddings
        index_name="your-index",            # the existing Mosaic index
        brain_key="mosaic_index",
        backend="mosaic",
    )

.. _mosaic-add-remove-embeddings:

Add/remove embeddings from an index
-----------------------------------

You can use
:meth:`add_to_index() <fiftyone.brain.similarity.SimilarityIndex.add_to_index>`
and
:meth:`remove_from_index() <fiftyone.brain.similarity.SimilarityIndex.remove_from_index>`

> to add and remove embeddings from an existing Mosaic index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to add and remove embeddings from an existing Mosaic index, respectively.
```

        model="clip-vit-base32-torch",
        brain_key="mosaic_index",
        backend="mosaic",
    )

    # Query by vector
    query = np.random.rand(512)  # matches the dimension of CLIP embeddings
    view = dataset.sort_by_similarity(query, k=10, brain_key="mosaic_index")

    # Query by sample ID
    query = dataset.first().id
    view = dataset.sort_by_similarity(query, k=10, brain_key="mosaic_index")

    # Query by a list of IDs
    query = [dataset.first().id, dataset.last().id]
    view = dataset.sort_by_similarity(query, k=10, brain_key="mosaic_index")

    # Query by text prompt
    query = "a photo of a dog"
    view = dataset.sort_by_similarity(query, k=10, brain_key="mosaic_index")

.. note::

    Performing a similarity search on a |DatasetView| will **only** return
    results from the view; if the view contains samples that were not included
    in the index, they will never be included in the result.

    This means that you can index an entire |Dataset| once and then perform
    searches on subsets of the dataset by
    :ref:`constructing views <using-views>` that contain the images of
    interest.

.. _mosaic-access-client:

Accessing the Mosaic client

> ----------------------------------

Reviewer: delete some `-`

Author: The `-` are immaterial and don't affect the actual built docs.

You can use the `client` property of a Mosaic index to directly access
the underlying Mosaic client instance and use its methods as desired:

.. code:: python
    :linenos:

    import fiftyone as fo
    import fiftyone.brain as fob
    import fiftyone.zoo as foz

    dataset = foz.load_zoo_dataset("quickstart")

    mosaic_index = fob.compute_similarity(
        dataset,
        model="clip-vit-base32-torch",
        brain_key="mosaic_index",
        backend="mosaic",
    )

    mosaic_client = mosaic_index.client

>     print(mosaic_client)

Reviewer: Can you add what is printed in the comment (# ...)?
